![](media/image1.png){width="3.1194444444444445in"
height="0.7798611111111111in"}

­­Business Plan

Welcome to Self-Publishing 4.0

February 2020

Confidentiality Statement and Legal Disclaimer

The provisions of this plan are privileged and confidential.
Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this business plan or any
of its contents in any form or under any circumstances without prior
written consent is prohibited. The Recipient is responsible for
returning all copies of the Business Plan immediately upon request of
Verkilo ("the Company"). The information contained herein is: (i)
provided by the principal founders of the business and (ii) publicly
available from directories, publications and websites, as mentioned in
the body and the footnotes where possible and appropriate. In some
cases, non-publicly available information was used, including
independent research, studies or paid services from individuals and
organizations. While the information set forth herein is deemed by the
Company to be accurate, the Company shall not be held liable for the
accuracy of or any omissions from this Business Plan or for any other
written or oral communication transmitted to the Recipient or to any
other party in the course of its evaluation of transactions involving
the Company.

The information contained in this plan will require scrutiny,
verification and due diligence by the Recipients of the plan. Any person
or entity seeking to make an investment in the Company should not rely
on the information set forth in the plan as being complete. In addition,
the analyses contained herein do not claim to be appraisals of the
assets or the valuation of any entity. The business makes no guarantees
regarding any benefits that may be received from investment, nor the
legal, tax or accounting effects of any transaction; and this Plan does
not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy
securities. In furnishing this Business Plan, the Company undertakes no
obligation to provide Recipients of the Business Plan with access to any
additional information nor to update this Business Plan nor to correct
any inaccuracies that may be contained herein. There exists substantial
information with respect to the business and its prospects, and there
are a substantial number of risks associated with an investment in the
Company which are not set forth in the plan.

Furthermore, the potential fulfillment of 'forward-looking statements'
contained in the plan are subject to change due to unexpected events,
market shifts, and circumstances that cannot be known at this time.
Forward-looking statements are based on expectations, estimates and
projections at the time the statements were made that involve numerous
economic, business, and other risks and uncertainties which could cause
actual results or events to differ materially from those presently
anticipated. Forward-looking statements in the plan may be identified
through the use of words such as, but not limited to: "expects," "will,"
"anticipates," "estimates," "believes," or statements indicating certain
actions "may," "could," or "might" occur. Such estimates and projections
are subject to significant uncertainties beyond the control of the
Company. Although such projections are believed to be realistic, no
representations are made as to their ultimate attainability.

Table of Contents {#table-of-contents .TOC-Heading}
=================

[Executive Summary 1](#executive-summary)

[Value Proposition 2](#value-proposition)

[Vision 2](#vision)

[Problem 2](#problem)

[Solution 3](#solution)

[Validation 3](#validation)

[Market Analysis 4](#market-analysis)

[Market Size 5](#market-size)

[Market Forecast 5](#market-forecast)

[Market Landscape 7](#market-landscape)

[Our Advantage 8](#_Toc33377065)

[Customers & Marketing 9](#customers-marketing)

[Customer Segments 9](#customer-segments)

[Engagement Channels 10](#engagement-channels)

[Traction Metrics 11](#traction-metrics)

[Business Model 13](#business-model)

[Services Offered 13](#services-offered)

[How the Service Will Work 14](#how-the-service-will-work)

[Execution 15](#execution)

[Key Activities 15](#key-activities)

[Key Resources 15](#key-resources)

[Key Partners 16](#key-partners)

[Product Development 17](#product-development)

[Product Roadmap 20](#_Toc33377078)

[Company 21](#company)

[Management Team & Gaps 21](#management-team-gaps)

[Company Ownership 22](#company-ownership)

[Risk Analysis 22](#risk-analysis)

[Exit Strategy 25](#exit-strategy)

[Financials 26](#financials)

[Fundraising 26](#fundraising)

[Company Valuation 26](#company-valuation-methodology)

[Cost Structure 27](#_Toc33377087)

[Revenue Streams 30](#revenue-streams)

[Financial Disclaimer 32](#financial-disclaimer)

[Appendices 34](#appendices)

[Appendix A. Professional Matchmaking Traits
34](#professional-matchmaking-traits)

[Appendix B. Estimated for Infrastructure Design
34](#estimated-for-infrastructure-design)

[Appendix C. Estimated for Application Software Development
36](#estimated-for-application-software-development)

[Appendix D. Application Design Layout 37](#application-design-layout)

[Appendix E. Projected Work Plan Details
38](#projected-work-plan-details)

[Appendix F. Customer Support Plan 39](#customer-support-plan)

[Appendix G. Product / Market Research 39](#product-market-research)

[Appendix H. Verkilo Valuation Model 41](#verkilo-valuation-model)

[Appendix I. Amazon Web Services (AWS) - Monthly Cost Allocations
42](#amazon-web-services-aws---monthly-cost-allocations)

[Appendix J. Financial Workbooks for Verkilo Five (5) Year Projections
43](#financial-workbooks-for-verkilo-five-5-year-projections)

[Appendix K. References 46](#references)

**\
**

List of Figures & Tables {#list-of-figures-tables .TOC-Heading}
========================

[Table 1: Self-Published US Book Market by the numbers 5](#_Toc33373115)

[Table 2: List of Competitors 6](#_Toc33373116)

[Table 3: Traction Metrics 10](#_Toc33373117)

[Table 4: Verkilo Product Roadmap 19](#_Toc33337616)

[Table 6: Summary of Use of Seed Funding 26](#_Toc33373119)

[Table 7: Payroll Expenses Estimate 27](#_Toc33373120)

[Table 8: Marketing Expenses Estimate 27](#_Toc33373121)

[Table 9: G&A Expenses Estimate 28](#_Toc33337614)

[Table 10: Product Development Expenses Estimate 28](#_Toc33337615)

[Table 10: Service Fee Basis of Estimate 29](#_Toc33337612)

[Table 11: Five-Year Sales Forecast 31](#_Toc33337613)

Executive Summary
=================

Traditional publishing offers a professional workflow that helps authors
turn their creation into a publishable product. The publishing field is
competitive, resulting in a high author rejection rate. The
self-publishing market comprises a third of the US publishing market,
representing \$9.1 billion of the \$26 billion in gross US annual book
revenue.[^1]

The quality of self-published titles is lower than traditional
publishing due in part to a lack of professional editing, which in turn
leads to a growing market of freelance editors. Authors and editors are
alike challenged with finding a suitable counterpart who can work within
their schedule. Editors are especially frustrated by authors having
unrealistic expectations, which leads to lower quality-of-life and
burnout.

Verkilo seeks to streamline the self-published author workflow through a
two-sided platform where authors can create their creative work, be
automatically paired & collaborate with a suitable editor. This will
reduce friction in the production process and by assisting scheduling we
will improve editor quality of life. As a platform, we are similar to
Airbnb and Uber. We generate revenue by levying a service charge on the
author in addition to the editor's fees. By establishing a modest
foothold in the self-published industry by Year 5, we expect to generate
\$XX in revenue. Our ideal exit strategy is acquisition by Amazon.

No unified, two-sided platform exists in the publishing industry that
offers automated author/editor pairing with content creation and
automated formatting. Most content creation and editing occurs in
standalone products like Microsoft Word and Google Docs. Existing
pairing platforms like Reedsy rely on manual pairing. Other products in
the industry focus on niche aspects such as formatting.

We seek \$2 million in Seed money for 10 percent in equity so we can
beat rivals to market and establish a strong brand presence. Verkilo
will use seed funding to finance its first steps, including refined
market research and product development. With seed funding, Verkilo can
determine what its final products will be and who its target demographic
is. We will use Seed funding to employ a founding team to complete these
tasks.**\
**

Value Proposition
=================

Vision
------

Verkilo will create a fully integrated, content creation platform that
helps self-published authors create professional grade books by
automatically pairing the author with available freelance editors using
a machine learning matchmaking algorithm. Self-published authors need to
work with their supporting editor on a schedule that supports the
author's targeted release date and the editor's hectic schedule. Verkilo
is a multi-operating system capability that works wherever the author
and editor are comfortable. Verkilo's unique value proposition removes
friction from author and editor by automating the process. This taps
into a multi-billion-dollar industry in need of optimization.

Verkilo will build an Internet-based brand that professionals in the
self-published market will recognize as the leader in supporting
production of professional-grade self-published literature. Company
revenues will be generated by a service charge added to each editorial
transaction. Verkilo will develop and market its own product offering
that leverages cloud technology and machine learning.

Non-stick self-publishing

Problem
-------

Production quality perennially challenges self-published authors in part
because they do not engage editors. They have problems finding a
suitable freelance editor. Likewise, freelance editors are challenged in
marketing to authors. Once editors attract self-published authors, they
are challenged when these authors have unrealistic schedule expectations
and lack professional discipline, often changing a draft after it has
been submitted. This results in work-life balance complaints among
freelance editors and lower-quality self-published books released the
market. By solving this problem, we help self-published authors work
more collaboratively with freelance editors on the editors' schedule.
This improves the quality of books for the audience, work-life balance
for editors, thus increasing earnings for both author and editor.

Solution
--------

Verkilo is a collaborative self-publishing creation and production
platform that supports the author's creative project from creation
through editing and publishing to distribution. We create a
cross-platform application (web, Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android) that
writers can use to create their work, and that then supports author and
editor collaboration to refine the draft until it is production-ready.
This platform automatically formats the production product into
professional PDF or ePUB files for distribution. Both are used by
authors to upload their content to Amazon's Kindle Direct Publishing
(KDP) platform for sale on Amazon.

Sequoia describes American Express, PayPal, eBay, Uber, Facebook,
WhatsApp, Netflix, and Amazon as two-sided platforms. These platforms
exist because we need intermediaries to match the supply and demand
sides of a market efficiently.[^2] Verkilo compares to these companies
in that it provides a similar two-sided marketplace for editors and
authors.

TBD -- Add Appendix for Matchmaking, etc., stealing the basic graphic
from Medium article. Put graphic in slide deck.

Validation
----------

Our latest validation of both the problem and solution comprises market
research in forums with high self-published author and editor access.
This includes Reddit's r/selfpublish channel comprising 36,700
members[^3] and the 20BooksTo50K^®^ Facebook group comprising 35,800
members.[^4] We conducted a survey of likely self-published editors via
direct Facebook advertisement over a period of two weeks. These editors
confirmed that their biggest challenge was finding authors who had
enough professionalism to work in the editor's schedule. This challenge
directly affects the editors' quality-of-life and contributes most to
editor frustration.

Market Analysis
===============

To enter the market quickly, Verkilo initially targets US self-published
authors and editors. The US self-publisher market is a third of the
total US published market (itself a quarter of the global market), and
is rapidly displacing traditional publishing conglomerates. The overall
market will grow modestly for the foreseeable future, with US
self-publishers earning \$11.7bn in gross annual revenue by 2025, or an
average of \$18,300 per newly published book.

Our Market Landscape analysis reflects a diverse market of products and
services that compete with Verkilo's vision and attention of the
self-publisher market. However, our quantitative assessment suggests
that few are able or willing to complete with our complete vision for
VISION STATEMENT.

Market Size
-----------

The US book publishing industry generated \$28bn annual revenue in
2018.[^5] This represents 23 percent of the \$119bn in global annual
revenue.[^6] US self-published authors represent 35 percent of the US
market, valued at \$7.8 billion.[^7]

Bowker, the US registrar for ISBNs (International Standard Book Number),
reported 1.6 million books published by self-published authors in 2018;
an increase in 490,000 new self-published titles released in 2018. [^8]
From 2010 to 2018, the number of self-published book titles increased an
average of 36% annually, or 263% total between 2013 and 2018.[^9] As the
overall US market publishing market grew at a lower pace, TBD-FN this
increase represents a displacement of traditional publishing by
self-publishers. Bowker warned that many books are now distributed via
Amazon's Kindle and do not have ISBNs, which means the total number of
self-published books exceeds the Bowker reported number.[^10] We limited
our analysis to verifiable numbers provided by Bowker.

Market Forecast
---------------

Technavio estimates the global publishing market size will grow by
\$23bn to \$142bn between 2020-2024; a 19 percent increase over the next
four years or 6 percent each year.[^11] If we assume the self-published
market grows apace with the global market size growth, annual revenue
may reach \$11.7bn with 3.3 million total new self-published titles
released by 2024 (640,000 in 2024). The average gross revenue per
self-published book is \$18,300.

Figure 1: Forecasted Annual Growth of Self-Published Market 2020-2024

[\[CHART\]]{.chart}

Market Landscape
----------------

Our Market Landscape analysis reflects a diverse market of products and
services that compete with Verkilo's vision. However, our quantitative
no-friction self-publishing. We provide our assessment of the market via
Porter's Five Forces, with additional attention given to the
differential characteristics Verkilo offers over other market providers.

**New Entrant Threat.** **High.** The threat of new entrants in any
SaaS-related market is high because the ease of establishing
infrastructure and product is low. This is true despite barriers to
gaining a foothold and remaining in the market long-term.

**Supplier Bargaining Power.** **Low**. Suppliers have limited
bargaining power due to the presence of many infrastructure and platform
providers that have commoditized storage, compute, database and other
services. Furthermore, supplier costs are a small proportion of SaaS
companies.

**Buyer Bargaining Power.** **Very High.** The competitive nature of
SaaS markets results in companies giving significant information to the
customer in the form of pre-sales information, free trials and
low-commitment monthly rollover contracts. To succeed, Verkilo must
establish brand loyalty and drive long-term value for the customer.

**Substitute Product Threat / Competitive rivalry.** **Very High.** SaaS
companies like Verkilo live and die by product differentiation, which
creates fierce competitive rivalry.

### Competition

To measure the market landscape, we leverage the methodology used by
Gartner to quantitatively assess the market landscape.[^12] Verkilo
views five criteria essential in defining a complete vision for a
Self-Publisher's Platform. We measured each on a 5-point Likert scale
and averaged the result to get the Vision Index. Agility is a measure of
how well we believe the company providing the product could and would
pivot to compete directly with Verkilo's vision. Appendix H below
provides more detail on our analysis using this market landscape
methodology and how we arrived at our metrics.

#### Completeness of Vision criteria for a Self-Publishers Platform

1.  **Complex Document Project Management.** Enables the self-published
    author to manage complex and inter-related documents (an entire
    fiction series or milieu)

2.  **Intelligent Matchmaking.** Advances machine learning in automating
    the identification and collaboration of book publishing
    professionals

3.  **Professional Final Product.** Delivers a final product that is
    indistinguishable from traditionally published products

4.  **Frictionless User Experience.** Book creation and publishing
    professionals enjoy their work without friction

5.  **Learning Community.** Draws self-published authors together to
    enhance the writing community and provide fine literature

The table below lists the top products in the self-publishing market
that support content creation, revision, publication or community.

[]{#_Toc33373116 .anchor}Table 2: Completeness of Competitors Vision &
Agility

  Product                  Manage   Match   Output   UX      Com.    Index   Agility
  ------------------------ -------- ------- -------- ------- ------- ------- ---------
  20Books to 50K           \-       \-      \-       \-      5       1       3
  Freelance Writer's Den   \-       \-      \-       \-      3       0.6     1
  Granthika                4        \-      1        3       1       1.8     1
  Google Docs              3        \-      1        1       1       1.2     3
  Leanpub                  4        \-      1        3       1       1.8     3
  Microsoft Word           3        \-      1        4       1       1.8     3
  Reedsy                   \-       3       \-       3       3       1.8     4
  Scrivener                4        \-      1        3       1       1.8     1
  Upwork / Fiver, etc.     \-       2       \-       3       1       1.2     1
  Vellum                   \-       \-      4        3       1       1.6     1
  Verkilo                  **5**    **5**   **5**    **5**   **5**   **5**   **3**

Figure 3: Market Landscape Quadrants

![](media/image2.png){width="5.918141951006124in"
height="3.952588582677165in"}

[]{#_Toc33377065 .anchor}Market Landscape Value Mapping

Customers & Marketing
=====================

Marketing is how Verkilo communicates with and reaches its Customer
Segments to deliver its Value Proposition.

Customer Segments
-----------------

Verkilo's customer base falls into the following major segments:

-   **Self-published Author.** The self-published author is either a
    full- or part-time author. The author either is being fully
    compensated for managing their own writing, or dreams of doing so
    and is working toward it. The 20BooksTo50K^®^ group is an example of
    tens of thousands of authors working together to reach that goal.
    Our target author seeks to write more than one book per year, with
    an ideal rate being four to six books per year.

-   **Freelance Editor.** The freelance editor is a full- or part-time
    editor. Like the author, the editor has or seeks full-time
    compensation for helping self-published authors convert their idea
    into a well-edited product. Some editors are also authors, but
    by-and-large editors tend to congregate in the same online forums as
    authors, or leverage discovery platforms like Reedsy, to find their
    customers.

-   **Independent Publishing Companies.** Small-scale independent
    publishing companies are not part of the large conglomerates or
    multinational publication companies. These presses make up roughly
    half of the publishing industry. These companies offer editorial
    services and attract long-term relationships with published authors.
    While this segment is distinct from the self-publishing segment,
    allowing them to work with their authors and editors on a single
    platform allows them to enrich the experience for their customers
    and employees.

Engagement Channels
-------------------

### Awareness 

Verkilo seeks to acquire customers via the following means:

-   **Conferences.** Create name and brand recognition by attending and
    or sponsoring national writing events such as NaNoWriMo and
    self-publisher-focused conferences. As an example of potential
    reach, NaNoWriMo had 1.05 million US members in 2019.[^13]

-   **Content Marketing.** Content marketing attracts prospects and
    transforms prospects into customers by creating and sharing valuable
    free content. Content marketing helps Verkilo create sustainable
    brand loyalty, provides valuable information to consumers, and
    creates a willingness to purchase products from us in the future.

-   **Influencers.** Use well-known authors as influencers and public
    sponsors of the platform. This would include creation of educational
    video media, sample text documentation, and whitepapers on platform
    use-case.

-   **Social Media Marketing.** Targeted digital marketing on platforms
    such as Facebook, Twitter, Reddit and various social media platforms
    with active users in our customer segments to increase name and
    brand awareness among self-published authors.

-   **User Recommendations.** We incentivize our customers by giving
    them three subscription-free months for every new customer they
    recruit on platform who pays a minimum of three months.

-   **Seven-Day Free Sign-up.** We conform to the SaaS market norm of
    providing no-commitment signups by offering a 7-day free signup that
    will roll-over to a monthly subscription.

### Evaluation & Delivery 

Verkilo delivers its value proposition to its customers via:

-   **Application Stores.** Verkilo will offer free downloads of its
    product accessible via the customer's preferred platform's app store
    (e.g. Apple Store, Microsoft Store, Google Play).

-   **Verkilo Website.** Verkilo enables free downloads of its product
    directly from the website. It will also have a browser-based
    implementation that allows a user to work directly in their
    preferred browser.

### Purchase

Verkilo's customers will purchase subscriptions through the Verkilo
website.

### After-Sales / Customer Relationships

Verkilo is a platform that seeks to establish a long-term indirect
relationship with its customer segments. We seek to establish and
maintain customer relationships via the following:

-   **Initial Active Customer Service.** During the initial startup
    phase, Verkilo will provide online customer support to identify
    areas of product or documentation improvement.

-   **Community for Shared Self-Service.** We seek to leverage our
    Community feature to allow users to share knowledge and solve each
    other's problems.

-   **Co-Creation.** We seek to use reviews to help users create value
    by helping one another identify high-quality professionals they can
    collaborate with.

-   **Switching Costs.** We seek to ensure we are providing value by
    allowing authors to recover their manuscripts via exported Word
    (.docx) files. By giving them confidence that they can switch, we
    hope to earn their trust. Allowing them to switch ensures we will
    strive to give them a product worthy of their use.

Traction Metrics
----------------

The following table lists metrics Verkilo relies on to determine our
progress in acquiring and retaining customers and satisfying the company
vision. All metrics are monthly. The overall goal is to reach
profitability in the first year.

[]{#_Toc33373117 .anchor}Table 4: Traction Metrics

+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Metric                      | Target | Description                 |
+=============================+========+=============================+
| Financial Objectives        |        |                             |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Monthly Recurring Revenue   | \$180K | Predictable monthly income  |
| (MMR)                       |        |                             |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Customers                   | 2250   | Total customers MoM         |
|                             |        |                             |
|                             |        | (new + retained -- churn)   |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Customer Lifetime Value     |        | Net revenue generated by    |
|                             |        | average customer            |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Customer Value Objectives   |        |                             |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Manuscripts drafted         | 750    | Number of books in active   |
|                             |        | draft, which shows customer |
|                             |        | adoption of composer        |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Editing Services Delivered  | 750    | Number of completed edit    |
|                             |        | interactions, which shows   |
|                             |        | successful matchmaking and  |
|                             |        | collaboration between       |
|                             |        | author and editor           |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
| Manuscripts formatted       | 750    | Number of manuscripts       |
|                             |        | finalized and exported for  |
|                             |        | follow-on distribution,     |
|                             |        | which shows author          |
|                             |        | satisfaction in ability to  |
|                             |        | export                      |
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+

Business Model
==============

Verkilo provides value via a mobilization platform business model. A
platform business model creates value by supporting collaboration
between two or more interdependent groups. A mobilization platform helps
those groups foster long-term relationships to achieve common goals.
This contrasts from an aggregation platform that keeps interactions
transactional, such as Uber, and social platforms like Facebook and
Reddit where the platform's focus is social.[^14] Like other platforms,
we do not create or manage inventory, although we do support content
creation through the platform. Our focus is on the relationships. Our
customers create and enhance the value of the creative products they
produce.

Services Offered
----------------

Verkilo will provide a comprehensive set of value-added customer
services that will cater to our audience. These services include:

-   **Content Creation.** Authors will experience award-winning,
    rich-text interface for creating complex literary work products from
    short stories to multi-product series. This created content will be
    securely stored in the cloud so the author can use any variant of
    our application (mobile, web, desktop) and enjoy a friendly user
    experience. Content creation includes storyboarding, outlining and
    literary element management.

-   **Editorial Matchmaking.** When a work product is ready for editing,
    our machine-learning matchmaker will intuitively identify ready and
    willing freelance editor professionals who have time in their
    schedule and the product's release deadline to complete the edit on
    time without stress.

-   **Editing and Version Control.** When a work product is being
    edited, our platform will provide the review, commenting and
    revision capabilities expected in industry. This includes tracking
    multiple revisions and the changes between versions so that
    collaborating parties can compare revisions.

-   **Production-Ready Formatting.** When a work product is ready for
    distribution, our application will provide a professional,
    production-grade export of the product that the author can then
    upload to their preferred distribution system such as Amazon's
    Kindle Direct Publishing.

-   **Community.** Our platform will encourage users to collaborate to
    improve their craft and marketability to their target audiences.

How the Service Will Work
-------------------------

Verkilo will facilitate professional self-published literature
production, working as follows:

1.  **Registration.** Anyone can browse the public portions of the web
    application. In order to create a work product as author or offer
    editorial services as editor, the customer will have to register
    with the application (web, mobile or desktop).

2.  **Purchasing Services.** Authors can purchase freelance editor's
    editorial services via the application. Authors can solicit bids
    based on the matchmaking algorithm or response to editor-directed
    bids.

3.  **Selling services.** Freelance editors can bid on editorial
    services as requested by the author or as automatically identified
    by the matchmaker.

4.  **Matchmaking.** Authors and editors will be matched via
    machine-learning algorithms that pair them via the work product's
    target audience, genre, and other criteria against the editor's
    self-identified preferences. Included in the matchmaking is a rating
    system that helps identify difficult users or editorial partners
    each party has enjoyed working with previously.

5.  **Formatting.** Authors can export their work product in an
    automated print/electronic format that is distribution ready. This
    streamlines the creation process by using established templates that
    ensure a professional finish.

6.  **Community.** Registered platform users in good standing will be
    encouraged to participate in our community experience using message
    boards, chats, etc. This will provide added value for the user and
    platform by improving matchmaking.

Execution
=========

Verkilo's execution plan focuses on ensuring we can provide our services
to our customer base 24/7, wherever they choose to write. We are using
traditional agile for development while we explore product-market fit.
We will maintain our infrastructure as code (IaC), allowing us to better
manage change and re-constitute our entire ecosystem automatically. We
will use GitHub for managing our code repository. Customer Service will
leverage TBD.

Key Activities
--------------

Verkilo will engage in the following key activities to derive value for
our customers:

-   **Author Content Storage.** Verkilo will cloud-host author content
    throughout the lifecycle of the product, including long-term
    storage.

-   **Author-Editor Matchmaking.** Our key differentiator is our ability
    to match author and editor based on a series of professional and
    temporal criteria using machine learning. We will manage these
    proprietary capabilities as trade secrets and develop with a small
    core team.

-   **Product Development.** Verkilo is a cloud-based software product
    company. That is the core of what we do.

Key Resources
-------------

Verkilo has the following key resources to create value:

-   **Matchmaking Algorithm.** Our matchmaking algorithm will help
    differentiate us from our competitors early on, allowing us to
    strengthen our brand.

-   **Developers.** Our core developer team is key to developing our
    algorithm. As we grow, we will shift from our offshore key partner
    to in-house developers.

-   **Intellectual Property.** Our other intellectual property, namely
    software, is key to our ability to deliver value. See Section below.

    -   **Brand.** As cited below, Verkilo will pursue developing a
        strong brand as the leader in the Self-Publishing 4.0 movement.

Key Partners
------------

Verkilo has the following Key Partners it relies on to provide our
service to our customers.

-   **Amazon Web Services.** Verkilo uses a wide range of Amazon Web
    Services to develop and deliver our services to our customers.

-   **Adreno Technologies India Pvt. Ltd.** Adreno Technologies (India)
    Private Limited is one of the leading IT/ITES service providers in
    India delivering IT & ITES Solutions to a diverse set of clients in
    more than 20 countries across the globe. We partner with Adreno to
    lower product development costs to accelerate delivery to market

-   **CLA LLP.** CLA is a professional services network and the eighth
    largest accountancy firm in the United States. CLA LLP provide our
    outsourced accounting support.

Product Development
-------------------

#### Summary. 

We provide a multi-operating system application that supports literary
work product creation and collaboration based in JavaScript (JS).
Several backend capabilities leverage native Amazon Web Service (AWS)
cloud functions that provide on-demand capabilities. Machine Learning
and Performance Analytics are provided through Amazon SageMaker,
PyTorch, and GraphQL on AWS.

Our service is decomposed into eight components listed below. Each
component provides value to the customer by providing a quality user
experience and one-stop interface for developing a creative project from
ideation to publication.

#### Composer (JavaScript Front-end). 

The user interface (UI) is a cross-platform application written in
Node.JS, leveraging React, Redux and other related libraries. The web
application provides a single code base for the other platforms written
entirely in JavaScript. We provide cross-platform support for mobile
(specifically Android and iOS) via React Native. We provide desktop
support via Electron.

Diagram 1 - Verkilo AWS Architecture & Author-Editor Pipeline\
(Author: Robert C. Koprowski Created by Draw.IO)

This UI provides a rich-text editor that can be used for composing,
editing and commenting on the book project, leveraging UTF-8 for
multi-language support, with multiple users able to collaborate in real
time. Author / Editor interactions are managed on platform, with
notifications. Editor availability calendar is managed in the Autor.

#### Matchmaker (AWS). 

The "Matchmaker" leverages predictive analytics (below) to help
anticipate when an author seeks out an editor. It offers the author a
set of editors identified by the audience and genre they edit for, the
type of editing they provide, and their expected availability. This
leverages Lambda, Docker and Python.

#### Data Store (AWS). 

AWS AppSync will be used to implement GraphQL as a query language that
writes queries in an object structure over the standard text string.
This will greatly reduce the complexity of normal SQL queries between
the frontend and backend, which will mean lower direct costs to run API
calls on AWS. As AppSync will be used as our API to handle requests from
our users and retrieve appropriate data, AWS DynamoDB will be used to
support the database services. DynamoDB is a serverless, NoSQL database
service on AWS, that will auto-scale on its own and will easily
integrate with AppSync. To support the "Matchmaker" machine learning
model, AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS) will be used as the compute
resource for the integrated service offerings of Amazon SageMaker. This
will ingest the analyzing and supporting data for training, testing, and
analysis to improve the machine learning algorithm. With ECS, we will be
using Docker as the container image as it is already integrated into
ECS.

#### Exporter (AWS). 

The exporter converts the stored work into publication-ready formats
(PDF, EPUB, DOCX, RTF) and stores it on the author's selected cloud
storage (Dropbox, iCloud, Google Drive, OneDrive, Box, S3). This
conversion leverages Pandoc and LaTeX, with Lambda and Docker /
Kubernetes orchestration for the processing container.

#### Importer (AWS). 

The importer converts uploaded RTF or DOCX into our proprietary format
for storage. The process leverages Pandoc, and Docker / Kubernetes for
processing. We virus scan these uploaded documents. As a milestone
event, we plan to implement and support a voice-to-text conversion of
uploaded MP3/4 and WAV using AWS Transcribe to provide convenience for
self-publishers to record thoughts and storytelling. Inherently, this
will also assist impaired users with their inability and difficulties in
self-publishing over standard-means of writing and/or typing their work.
Additional support for this service includes Amazon Textract
(Text-Recognition), Amazon Translate (Language Translation), and Amazon
Polly (Text-to-Speech)

#### Account Management (AWS). 

User accounts will largely be managed by AWS Cognito, a service that
provides identity management and access control to our application.
Account creation, user/group management, MFA, device management,
password policies, and more will be managed through this service to
provide layered security and basic account management of our users.
Permissions/Rights will be managed in combination with a database table
and AWS Cognito groups. This will allow editors and authors to have
transparently different permissions and access to the same resources.

Cognito integrates easily with iOS, Android, Web, and desktop
applications without modification. Cognito will help the user to set
these permissions based on their Verkilo subscription (time until
expired, active/expired, etc.).

#### Notification (AWS). 

To automate notifications to our users, as well as administrators on
system-level events and monitoring, we're implementing AWS' Simple
Notification Service (SNS) in combination with AWS' Simple Email
Service. SNS/SES is easily integrated into many of the other services
AWS offers, including Cognito. This will allow automated email messages
to be sent to users for account creation directions, resetting
passwords, and subscription-renewal messages based on expiring
subscriptions. These services will also assist in security event
information management, automated incident response and recovery, and
other logging/monitoring needs for security-related capabilities
implemented into our platform.

#### Predictive Analytics / Machine Learning (AWS). 

The data collected from editors and authors will include their schedule,
genre and audience preferences, and experience, which will serve as
inputs for the machine learning model. The model will then begin to
match similarities and "chance of matching" between the authors and
editors, which will serve as the output.

The data used to train the "Matchmaker" machine learning model will be
derived from data initially collected after Verkilo's release and until
it is implemented into the production environment. The data used to
train the "Matchmaker" will be a random 80% of the collected data, and
the test/validation data set will comprise the remaining 20%.

We will use Amazon's SageMaker Studio services to process over fifty
(50) industry-leading, optimized ML-based models utilizing the top three
ML platforms (TensorFlow, PyTorch, and Apache MXNet), which are the
industry preferred frameworks for text-based input, linear regression,
reinforcement, and sentiment training. SageMaker Notebook, Experiment,
and Debugger will be directly integrated into AWS' Machine Learning
services, which will allow quick implementation and delivery of our
"Matchmaker" model and allow for a pipeline of additional data analytics
and derivations of platform service metrics.

Product Roadmap
---------------

Verkilo leverages a platform business model by bringing two different
market segments together. Our roadmap focuses on attracting both
segments to the platform with the goal of generating revenue principally
via the editor segment.

[]{#_Toc33337616 .anchor}Table 5: Verkilo Product Roadmap

  Phase   Explanation                                                               Status
  ------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------
  1       Build the platform and the book production pipeline to attract authors.   Seeking Seed Investment
  2       Expand the platform to editors                                            Pending
  3       Introduce Machine Learning to automate author/editor matchmaking          Pending
  4       Integrate self-published author marketing & advertising management        Subsequent investment stage

Company
=======

Management Team & Gaps
----------------------

Our management team comprises professionals with years of experience in
providing cloud and software development expertise. We are well-suited
to bring Verkilo to market, though we seek additional expertise in
marketing. Our team will be employed during the start-up period. We
welcome expertise from our investor's group that can contribute to the
success of the company. We include management team skill gaps below.

#### Bryan Birchfield (Founder, COO). 

Bryan Birchfield has had an extensive Engineering career with a wealth
of experience as a Systems Engineer, Solutions Architect and Network
Engineer. His experience has spanned business development, sales,
product development, and engineering support teams.

#### **Robert Koprowski** (Founder, CTO). 

Robert Koprowski is a senior IT Solutions Architect, Systems
Administrator, and Cybersecurity professional supporting various federal
government clients. His 12 years of experience is diversified between
Migration, DevSecOps, and Mobile Application Security within the
Cloud-Computing industry for Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud
Platform (GCP), and Microsoft Azure. His passion for research &
development (R&D) and delivering prototype programs is what drives him.
Mr. Koprowski's expertise aligns well with bringing innovation to any
startup.

#### Benjamin Wilson (Founder, CEO). 

Ben Wilson is a senior government project manager. He has 17 years'
experience in the technology field supporting efforts in software
development, hardware and organizational change management. He is a
former board president of the Accessible Community, a 503(c) non-profit
startup focused on improving access to small businesses, community
organizations, and the surrounding communities for people with
disabilities. As an aspiring self-published author, he is sensitive to
the needs of the target audience.

#### Chief Marketing Officer. 

-   Verkilo lacks strong expertise in marketing and sales. At this stage
    in our lifecycle, we are seeking an advisor or co-founder to join us
    to help carry this product to our target market.

#### Chief Financial Officer. 

-   Verkilo lacks strong experience in Financial Planning and Risk
    Management. In order to mitigate this gap in expertise, we plan to
    outsource the entire accounting operation to CLA, LLP. CLA operates
    an entire business practice around offering outsourced accounting
    services, to include the CFO position, to small business and
    startups. This allows Verkilo to obtain the expertise required while
    keeping initial costs low.

Company Ownership
-----------------

Grown out of a desire to bring change to the self-published writing
community, the management team (Birchfield, Koprowski, & Wilson) founded
Verkilo in 2019 to bring an innovative mobilization platform to market.
We are currently wholly owned and completely self-funded. To capitalize
on our grassroots growth, Verkilo seeks a seed round of investment to
establish product-market fit and product development.

Intellectual Property
---------------------

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod
tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.

Patents.

Copyright.

Trademark.

Risk Analysis
-------------

Verkilo accepts that as a startup it is a bundle of risks. Our risk
management approach looks at major aspects of a startup to determine how
to fairly communicate those risks and explain how the company addresses
those risks.

We use Leo Polovets' startup risk management model.[^15] As an angel
investor and venture capitalist, Mr. Polovets suggests key aspects of a
startup that should be de-risked. Each risk is scored on a Likert 1-5
scale (Very-High = 5, Very-Low =1). Focusing on systemic startup risk
areas avoids a key mistake of undue resource allocation to address minor
risks.[^16]

The following list covers each of Polovets' suggested risk areas
including our evaluation and our approach to reducing risk. We leverage
the approach recommended by Josh Smith, who created a risk management
process and spreadsheet from Mr. Polovets' model.[^17]

#### Product/Market Fit Risk. 

**Very High**

-   Goal: Proving that we are building what people want.

-   Situation: We think people will use our product based on customer
    surveys and interviews.

-   Mitigation: We will build our prototype in collaboration with early
    adopters, pivoting as needed to make fit. In this we follow in the
    footsteps of companies such as Google, Apple, and PayPal, who went
    from marginal to successful with a change of business model.

#### Product Quality Risk. 

**Very High**

-   Goal: Proving we can build a high-quality product.

-   Situation: We have a no prototype, but we are sure we can build one.

-   Mitigation: Build the prototype with seed funding using feedback
    from a small subset of our target audience.

#### Sales Risk. 

**Very High**

-   Goal: Proving we can sell our product successfully.

-   Situation: We have no sales experience.

-   Mitigation: We seek an experienced sales/marketing advisor or
    founder to help us mature our capability.

#### Recruiting Risk. 

-   **High**

-   Goal: Proving we can grow the team effectively.

-   Situation: We have some recruiting experience, and specific
    team-building experience.

-   Mitigation: We seek an experienced recruiting advisor or founder to
    help us mature our capability.

#### Short-Term Competition Risk. 

-   **High**

-   Goal: Proving we are differentiated from others in the market space.

-   Situation: There are many competitors that are inefficient at
    serving our target audience, but there is some differentiation
    between them.

-   Mitigation: With sales in place, establish brand perception and seek
    a patent on our matchmaking technology.

#### Long-Term Risk. 

-   **High**

-   Goal: Proving defensibility, or that we can position ourselves to
    compete successfully against copycats.

-   Situation: We do not have a real competitive advantage, but we are a
    first mover in automated professional relationship building between
    author and editor.

-   Mitigation: With sales in place, establish brand perception.

#### Market Risk. 

-   **Low**

-   Goal: Proving we can execute well and become a successful company.

-   Situation: We have conducted top-down market analysis, but not
    bottom-up analysis backed by experience & data.

-   Mitigation: We will continue to improve our model via bottom-up
    analysis and experimentation.

#### Team Risk. 

-   **Low**

-   Goal: Proving we have a team that can achieve our vision.

-   Situation: Our core team has technical competence in the key areas.

-   Mitigation: None, minimal residual risk.

#### Funding Risk. 

-   **Low**

-   Goal: Proving we have enough capital to hit our milestones.

-   Situation: With effort, we should be able to get to break-even
    without capital beyond the seed round.

-   Mitigation: None due to low residual risk.

#### Intellectual Property Risk. 

-   **High**

-   Goal: Proving we have defensible intellectual property.

-   Situation: We did a cursory patent and trademark evaluation, but are
    not legally competent to do a proper patent search.

-   Mitigation: Engage a patent law firm to guide us through the patent
    portion. Trademark Verkilo.

Exit Strategy
-------------

Our exit strategy is acquisition by Amazon, which would add distribution
to the self-publishing production pipeline and carry a self-published
work from ideation through production to the reader. Our Technology
section, *supra*, reflects this strategy by ensuring our application is
ready to integrate easily into Amazon's application infrastructure.

Financials
==========

Verkilo seeks \$2 Million in Seed funding for 10 percent equity. All
investors are offered equity in the firm. Verkilo will invest the \$2
Million to fund product development, marketing, operational expenses,
execution of teaming/business agreements, and customer support. Our plan
anticipates delivering to market in the first year. As we progress into
year 2 and beyond, our revenue from sales will cover our operational and
marketing expenses. We forecast that we will be net revenue positive in
Year 2, with an EBIT of TBD.

Fundraising
-----------

In order to achieve this growth, Verkilo seeks funding via an equity
placement to make investments in a variety of areas and fund cash flow
requirements for the next 24 months of operation. The Company is seeking
\$2 million to finance these activities.

Figure 6: Fundraising Rounds

  Round        Amount   Status    Purpose
  ------------ -------- --------- ------------------------------------------------------
  Seed         \$2M     Seeking   Product/Market fit, Development, Early Market Growth
  Series A                        Scale
  IPO / Exit                      

Company Valuation Methodology
-----------------------------

Verkilo employs the Venture Capital model, which allows investors to
work backward from their intended return and calculate the value and
equity requirements. Our planned use of funding and proceeds and growth
forecasts aligns to the expected investor return on Seed funding. See
Appendix G below for details on our application of the Venture Capital
model.

Use of Proceeds and Funds
-------------------------

The proceeds from this equity financing activity will be used as
summarized on the table below.

[]{#_Toc33373119 .anchor}Table 7: Summary of Use of Seed Funding

  Expense Area               Amount        Description
  -------------------------- ------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Payroll                    \$440,000     Management team salary & benefits
  Marketing                  \$250,000     In-person and virtual marketing to attract platform target audience
  Product Development        \$500,000     Salary, licenses and expenses needed to establish the platform
  Infrastructure             \$40,000      Expected platform infrastructure costs
  General & Administrative   \$190,000     Subset of the company\'s operating expenses
  Contingency                \$80,000      Safety net to improve our financial stability to fill emergency needs
  Total:                     \$2,000,000   

The following sections describe in greater detail how we intend to use
the funding provided in the Seed round.

### Payroll Expenses

[]{#_Toc33373120 .anchor}Table 8: Payroll Expenses Estimate

  Category                   Year 1       Description
  -------------------------- ------------ ------------------------
  Chief Executive Officer    \$125,000    Full salary & benefits
  Chief Technology Officer   \$125,000    Full salary & benefits
  Chief Operations Officer   \$125,000    Full salary & benefits
  Chief Marketing Officer    \$65,000     Expected hire mid-year
  Chief Financial Officer    Outsourced   Listed in G&A Estimate
  Total:                     \$440,000    

### Marketing Expenses

[]{#_Toc33373121 .anchor}Table 9: Marketing Expenses Estimate

  Category                           Year 1      Description
  ---------------------------------- ----------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Influencers / Spokesperson         \$125,000   Paid persons for use in advertising, social media and video content
  Content Production                 \$75,000    Production of educational and inspirational written and video content
  Social Media / Digital Marketing   \$35,000    Product advertising on major platforms
  Trade Show / Conferences           \$15,000    Attend regional & national conferences frequented by our target audience.
  Total:                             \$190,000   

### General & Administrative Expenses

[]{#_Toc33337614 .anchor}Table 10: G&A Expenses Estimate

  Category                      Year 1      Description
  ----------------------------- ----------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Legal Fees                    \$120,000   Legal fees include ensuring we have appropriate terms of service, protection from copyright infringement allegations, etc.
  Outsourced Accounting         \$30,000    CLA LLP to provide outsourced accounting services, to include the CFO position
  General Liability Insurance   \$5,000     broad insurance policy providing liability insurance for general business risks
  Customer Support              \$35,000    Outsourced offshore customer support, including authoring help documentation and user's manual
  Facilities                    \$ - 0 -    Core management and development team will work off-site (at home)
  Total:                        \$190,000   

### Product Development & Infrastructure Expenses

During the first year, our initial focus will be on establishing the
platform to attract customers. Partnership discovery / matchmaking will
start off rudimentary to demonstrate functionality. As we finish the
platform, we will shift focus to establishing the machine learning
baseline.

[]{#_Toc33337615 .anchor}Table 11: Product Development Expenses Estimate

  Category                                     Year 1      Description
  -------------------------------------------- ----------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Lead UI Developer                            \$180,000   Salary for in-house development lead who will interface with outsourced development team
  Development Tools                            \$5,000     Licensing for development tools
  Software Development & Collaboration Tools   \$10,000    Licensing for software development, source code repositories and collaboration tools
  Outsourced Development Team                  \$315,000   Development team producing non-proprietary product features
  Total:                                       \$500,000   

### Financial Estimation Assumptions

Our financial plan operates on the following assumptions:

-   The historical trend in self-publishing continues for the
    foreseeable future.

-   There would be no unforeseen changes in technology to make our
    products obsolete. Our underlying software relies on JavaScript, a
    Top-5 programming language. We are leveraging well-established and
    well-supported AWS cloud technologies.

-   Cash flow is not expected to be a problem, with editing expenses
    being paid half on request, half on delivery and the service charge
    levied on request.

-   Verkilo's growth is based on internal financial resources. From year
    two forward, subject to growth requirements, the company will budget
    50% of after-tax profits for growth and 50% for dividends.

-   Verkilo's service fee is percentage-based, using industry standard
    editing prices.

-   Verkilo assumes authors and editors will continue to use the
    platform after establishing a relationship. We seek to maintain
    their platform engagement by providing a solid user experience.

Revenue Streams
---------------

Verkilo will build revenues and profits from the following sources:

-   **Service Charge.** Verkilo will add a service charge to the
    editorial bid that is a fixed percentage of the bid with a minimum
    cost threshold based on the size of the work product and type of
    editorial service performed.

-   **User Subscription.** Verkilo charges a nominal monthly user
    subscription fee. The subscription drives metrics collection.

[]{#_Toc33337612 .anchor}Table 12: Service Fee Basis of Estimate

  -------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- --------------- -------------
  **[Fee Structure]{.underline}**                                                                        
  **\* Revenue Analysis Based on Industry Average (Words per Book)**   **50,000**                        
                                                                                                         
  **Editor Pricing (Per Book)**                                        **Per word**      **Weighting**   **Total**
  Developmental Editing                                                \$ 0.08           30%             \$ 4,000.00
  Copy Editing                                                         \$ 0.018          50%             \$ 900.00
  Proofreading                                                         \$ 0.0113         100%            \$ 565.00
  **Total Cost of Editing**                                            **\$ 2,215.00**                   
                                                                                                         
  **Revenue Streams**                                                  **Percentage**    **Fee**         
  Revenue Per Book                                                     10%               **\$ 221.50**   
  Revenue Per User                                                     \$7               **\$ 50.00**    
  **Total Revenue Per Work**                                           **\$ 271.50**                     
  -------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- --------------- -------------

-   **Developmental edit. A thorough edit of a entire manuscript that
    reviews all the elements from single words and the phrasing of
    individual sentences, to overall structure and style**

-   **Copy Editing. A general edit addressing grammatical and
    punctuation errors, incorrect facts, anomalies, inconsistencies and
    glaring typos.**

-   **Proofreading. A detailed edit to find all grammatical, spelling
    and punctuation errors.**

-   **TBD: Fix the Revenue per user**

#### Service Fee Estimate Assumptions

-   Average manuscript length of 50,000, which is the industry-defined
    minimum size of a fiction novel. Manuscript length is traditionally
    based on genre ranging between 50-150,000 for fiction and
    non-fiction ranging up to 200,000 words.

-   A manuscript will probably go through multiple edit rounds, with the
    assumed probability reflected in the estimate.

### Revenue Estimates

[]{#_Toc33337613 .anchor}Table 13: Five-Year Sales Forecast

  ---------------------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ------------------ ------------------
  **[Sales]{.underline}**                                                                               
                               **Year 1**        **Year 2**        **Year 3**        **Year 4**         **Year 5**
  Market Share                 0.5%              1.0%              2.0%              3.5%               6.5%
  Total Books Self-Published   1,020,000         1,040,400         1,061,208         1,082,432          1,104,081
  Subscribed users             10,200            20,808            42,448            75,770             176,653
  Books Published              5,100             10,404            21,224            37,885             88,326
  **Revenue**                  **\$1,639,650**   **\$3,344,886**   **\$6,823,567**   **\$12,180,068**   **\$28,396,958**
  ---------------------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ------------------ ------------------

Note: We plan to capture 6.5 percent market share by Year 5. Our
revenues are based on a fee structure shown in the section above,
multiplied by the books published on the Verkilo platform.

Financial Disclaimer
--------------------

The financial projections that appear in this Business Plan are
estimated revenues, expenses, and cash flow, which are based on research
and the assumptions discussed throughout this Business Plan. They
represent the best of management's knowledge and belief. The Company's
expected revenues, expenses, and cash flow for the projected periods are
subject to the Company's ability to develop sales and production levels
at the price and costs estimated by management. Accordingly, these
projections reflect management's estimates as of date of publication,
and its expected course of action if such sales and production levels
are attained at the price and costs anticipated.

These projected financial statements are for the purpose of providing
updated information to existing and new investors. Do not consider these
projected financial statements as a presentation to forecast future
results. Accordingly, these projections may not be useful for other
purposes.

The assumptions discussed herein are those that management believes are
significant to the projections. There may be additional unconsidered
assumptions that could materially affect results. Furthermore, even if
the sales and production levels as well as the projected price and costs
are attained, there will usually be differences between projected and
actual results because events and circumstances frequently do not occur
as expected, and those differences may be material.

Appendices
==========

####### Professional Matchmaking Traits

The following traits suggest the traits that would be used by the
machine learning matchmaker to

######## User Traits

  Trait     Description
  --------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ranking   The net promoter score for the user based on past collaborations

######## Manuscript Traits

  Trait             Description
  ----------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Genre             Picklist of Target genre for the work
  Length            Type of manuscript, short, medium, long, derived from the planned length
  Target Audience   Basic demographic of the manuscript's target audience (Child, Youth, Young Adult, Adult)
  Planned length    Planned length of work, identified by the author
  Actual length     Actual length of work based on manuscript wordcount
  Progress          Percentage of completion
  State             Picklist of what
  Version           
  Deadline          When the author wants to

####### Estimated for Infrastructure Design

Summary -

High level design principles -

Tables / Diagrams

![](media/image3.png){width="6.5in" height="4.847222222222222in"}

#######  Estimated for Application Software Development

Summary -

High Level Design Principles

####### Application Design Layout

Image of Generic Web / Mobile Interfaces with Verkilo Logos

####### Projected Work Plan Details

Table of Detailed Schedule (or Use MS Project to Map Overlap)

-   Project Management Plan

-   Infrastructure Implementation

-   Backend Services Development

-   Frontend Services Development

-   Database Systems Implementation

-   Architecture / Software Integration

-   Mobile Application Development

-   User Interface / User Experience (UI/UX) Testing

-   Release Schedule

####### Customer Support Plan

The Help Desk objective is to deliver support for all Verkilo users and
provide high-quality training for the IT Help Desk staff. Can be made
into Table

-   Support Channels

-   Self-Help

-   Community Blog

-   Help Bots

-   Live Chat (AI-Enabled)

-   Social Media

####### Product / Market Research

The analysis of collected product interest and market penetration data
collected through the Verkilo.com website and Social Media platforms
supporting Verkilo's claims for business investment and growth
potential. (Tables / Figures / Graphs of Analysis) Below figures on
Product / Market Research were collected from Statista.com.

![](media/image4.png){width="3.026042213473316in"
height="2.2519378827646546in"}![](media/image5.png){width="2.9531255468066493in"
height="2.195913167104112in"}

####### Market Landscape Methodology

A market landscape quadrant provides a graphical competitive positioning
of four types of technology providers, in markets where growth is high
and provider differentiation is distinct:

-   **Leaders** execute well against their current vision and are well
    positioned for tomorrow.

-   **Visionaries** understand where the market is going or have a
    vision for changing market rules, but do not yet execute well.

-   **Niche Players** focus successfully on a small segment or are
    unfocused and do not out-innovate or outperform others.

-   **Challengers** execute well today or may dominate a large segment,
    but do not demonstrate an understanding of market direction.

![](media/image6.png){width="4.78301946631671in"
height="4.311319991251094in"}![](media/image7.png){width="3.004849081364829in"
height="2.2343755468066493in"}![](media/image8.png){width="2.9908409886264216in"
height="2.2239588801399823in"}![](media/image9.png){width="2.8927799650043746in"
height="2.151042213473316in"}

![](media/image10.png){width="3.0468755468066493in"
height="2.2656255468066493in"}![](media/image11.png){width="2.8854166666666665in"
height="2.2083333333333335in"}

####### Verkilo Valuation Model

Verkilo used the Venture Capital method to identify its market valuation
after Seed investment. The Venture Capital method allows investors to
work backwards from their intended return, and calculate the value and
equity requirements of a particular deal.[^18]

Assumptions

-   We assumed a 15x multiple based off of our forecasted third-year
    post-tax earnings.

-   The IRR should be 30 percent year-on-year

-   \$2 Million in investor seed money, based on our request

-   25 percent dilution at Series-A, based on common venture capital
    estimates

> TBD Formula

####### Amazon Web Services (AWS) - Monthly Cost Allocations

Verkilo's Analysis of Monthly Operational Expenses using the Amazon Web
Services (AWS) - Simple Monthly Calculator
([[https://calculator.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html]{.underline}](https://calculator.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html))

  --------------------- ------------- --------------------- ------------------------------ ------------ ----------- ------------- ------------ ----------- -------------
  **Service**           **Rate**      **Units**             **Description**                **Amount**   **Units**   **Cost/mo**   **Amount**   **Units**   **Cost/mo**
  **S3**                0.023         GB                    Standard Storage               5            GB/mo       \$0.12        250          GB/mo       \$5.75
                        0.0125        GB                    Infrequent-Access (+90 days)   0            GB/mo       \$0.00        75           GB/mo       \$0.94
                        0.09          GB                    Data Transfer (Out)            0.25         GB/mo       \$0.00        125          GB/mo       \$11.16
  **Lambda**            0.2           Mil                   Requests                       0.5          M/mo        \$0.00        2            M/mo        \$0.20
  **DynamoDB**          1.25          Mil                   Write Traffic                  50,000       M/mo        \$0.06        750,000      M/mo        \$0.94
                        0.25          Mil                   Read Traffic                   50,000       M/mo        \$0.01        750,000      M/mo        \$0.19
                        0.25          GB                    Data Storage                   2            GB/mo       \$0.50        500          GB/mo       \$125.00
                        0.09          GB                    Data Transfer (Out)            2            GB/mo       \$0.18        350          GB/mo       \$31.50
                        0.2           GB                    Continuous Backup              0.25         GB/mo       \$0.05        500          GB/mo       \$100.00
  **AppSync**           4             Mil                   Query/Data Modifications       10,000       M/mo        \$0.04        250,000      M/mo        \$1.00
                        2             Mil                   Real-time Update Ops           10,000       M/mo        \$0.02        250,000      M/mo        \$0.50
  **SNS**               0.5           Mil                   Requests/Notifications         1,000        M/mo        \$0.00        30,000       M/mo        \$0.00
                        0.5           Mil                   Mobile Push Notifications      1,000        M/mo        \$0.01        25,000       M/mo        \$0.03
  **SES**               0.1           1k                    Emails Sent                    50           1k/mo       \$0.00        30,000       1k/mo       \$3.60
                        0.12          GB                    Attachment Data                0.25         GB/mo       \$0.03        25           GB/mo       \$3.00
  **Cognito**           0.0055        MAU                   Monthly Active Users           10           /MAU        \$0.00        100,000      /MAU        \$230.00
  **ECS**               0.0408        CPU                   Compute Charge                 4            /CPU        \$13.06       40           /CPU        \$130.56
                        0.0044        GB                    Memory Charge                  8            GB/mo       \$2.82        80           GB/mo       \$28.16
  **CloudFront**        0.085         TB                    Data Transfer (Out)            0.03         TB/mo       \$0.00        0.5          TB/mo       \$0.04
                        0.01          10k                   HTTPS Requests                 1,000        10k/mo      \$0.00        445,000      10k/mo      \$0.45
  **API Gateway**       3.5           333Mil                API Calls                      30,000       333M/mo     \$0.00        10,000,000   333M/mo     \$0.11
                        0.02          GB                    Cache Memory Size (.5)         0.5          GB/mo       \$0.01        0.5          GB/mo       \$0.01
                        0.09          GB                    Data Transfer (Out)            2            GB/mo       \$0.18        350          GB/mo       \$31.50
  **WAF**               5             ACL                   Web-App Firewall ACL           1            ACL/mo      \$5.00        1            ACL/mo      \$5.00
                        1             rule                  Web-App Firewall rule          3            rule/mo     \$3.00        3            rule/mo     \$3.00
                        0.6           Mil                   Web Requests                   2,000        M/mo        \$0.00        445,000      M/mo        \$0.27
  **Transit Charges**   **\$10.10**   **Service Charges**   **\$713.18**                                                                                   
  --------------------- ------------- --------------------- ------------------------------ ------------ ----------- ------------- ------------ ----------- -------------

####### Financial Workbooks for Verkilo Five (5) Year Projections

Text

  ------------------------------------------ ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ------------------ ------------------
  **[Sales]{.underline}**                                                                                             
                                             Year 1            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4             Year 5
  Market Share                               0.5%              1.0%              2.0%              3.5%               8.0%
  Total Books Self-Published                 1,020,000         1,040,400         1,061,208         1,082,432          1,104,081
  Subscribed users                           10,200            20,808            42,448            75,770             176,653
  Books Published                            5,100             10,404            21,224            37,885             88,326
  **Revenue**                                **\$1,639,650**   **\$3,344,886**   **\$6,823,567**   **\$12,180,068**   **\$28,396,958**
  **[Net Income Statement]{.underline}**                                                                              
                                             **YR1**           **YR2**           **YR3**           **YR4**            **YR5**
  **Sales**                                  \$1,639,650       \$3,344,886       \$6,823,567       \$12,180,068       \$28,396,958
                                                                                                                      
  **FC**                                     -\$1,594,600      -\$1,482,500      -\$1,751,400      -\$1,782,300       -\$1,819,200
  **VC**                                     -\$38,250         -\$78,030         -\$159,181        -\$284,138         -\$662,448
  **EBIT**                                   \$6,800           \$1,784,356       \$4,912,986       \$10,113,629       \$25,915,310
  **Loss Carryover**                                           -\$6,800                                               
  **Taxes (21%)**                                              -\$376,143        -\$1,031,727      -\$2,123,862       -\$5,442,215
  **NI**                                     \$6,800           \$1,408,213       \$3,881,259       \$7,989,767        \$20,473,095
  **[Fixed Cost Analysis]{.underline}**                                                                               
                                             YR1               YR2               YR3               YR4                YR5
  Product Development                        \$540,100         \$540,100         \$540,100         \$540,100          \$540,100
  Training Content                           \$150,000         \$25,000          \$25,000          \$25,000           \$25,000
  Marketing & Advertising                    \$250,000         \$250,000         \$500,000         \$500,000          \$500,000
  MGMT Team Salary                           \$500,000         \$500,000         \$500,000         \$500,000          \$500,000
  Legal                                      \$120,000         \$120,000         \$120,000         \$120,000          \$120,000
  Internal Business Apps                     \$4,500           \$5,400           \$6,300           \$7,200            \$8,100
  Outsourced Accounting                      \$30,000          \$42,000          \$60,000          \$90,000           \$126,000
  General Liability Insurance                \$5,000           \$5,000           \$5,000           \$5,000            \$5,000
  **Total Fixed Cost**                       **\$1,594,600**   **\$1,482,500**   **\$1,751,400**   **\$1,782,300**    **\$1,819,200**
  **[Variable Cost Analysis]{.underline}**                                                                            
                                             YR1               YR2               YR3               YR4                YR5
  Cloud/Infrastructure Cost                  \$7,650           \$15,606          \$31,836          \$56,828           \$132,490
  Customer Support                           \$30,600          \$62,424          \$127,345         \$227,311          \$529,959
  **Total Variable Cost**                    **\$38,250**      **\$78,030**      **\$159,181**     **\$284,138**      **\$662,448**
  ------------------------------------------ ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ------------------ ------------------

  --------------------------------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
  **[Fixed Cost Analysis]{.underline}**                                                                           
                                          **Year 1**        **Year 2**        **Year 3**        **Year 4**        **Year 5**
  Product Development                     \$540,100         \$540,100         \$540,100         \$540,100         \$540,100
  Training Content                        \$150,000         \$25,000          \$25,000          \$25,000          \$25,000
  Marketing & Advertising                 \$250,000         \$250,000         \$500,000         \$500,000         \$500,000
  Management Team Salary                  \$500,000         \$500,000         \$500,000         \$500,000         \$500,000
  Legal                                   \$120,000         \$120,000         \$120,000         \$120,000         \$120,000
  Internal Business Apps                  \$4,500           \$5,400           \$6,300           \$7,200           \$8,100
  Outsourced Accounting                   \$30,000          \$42,000          \$60,000          \$90,000          \$126,000
  General Liability Insurance             \$5,000           \$5,000           \$5,000           \$5,000           \$5,000
  **Total Fixed Cost**                    **\$1,594,600**   **\$1,482,500**   **\$1,751,400**   **\$1,782,300**   **\$1,819,200**
  --------------------------------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------

  ------------------------------------------ -------------- -------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------
  **[Variable Cost Analysis]{.underline}**                                                                 
                                             **Year 1**     **Year 2**     **Year 3**      **Year 4**      **Year 5**
  Infrastructure Cost                        \$7,650        \$15,606       \$31,836        \$56,828        \$132,490
  Customer Support                           \$30,600       \$62,424       \$127,345       \$227,311       \$529,959
  **Total Variable Cost**                    **\$38,250**   **\$78,030**   **\$159,181**   **\$284,138**   **\$662,448**
  ------------------------------------------ -------------- -------------- --------------- --------------- ---------------

  ------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ----------- ------------ ------------ ------------
  **Marketing Expense**                      **Description**                                                                                    **Year 1**   **Year2**   **Year 3**   **Year 4**   **Year 5**
  Platform Influencers / Paid Spokesperson   Paid spokesperson(s) for use in advertising, social media and video content                        \$125,000    \$125,000   \$255,000    \$255,000    \$255,000
  Content Production                         Production of educational and inspirational videos for new and emerging writers.                   \$75,000     \$75,000    \$125,000    \$125,000    \$125,000
  Social Media / Digital Marketing           Facebook, Twitter, Reddit and Forums                                                               \$35,000     \$35,000    \$100,000    \$100,000    \$100,000
  Trade Show / Conferences                   Attendance to regional and national conferences focusing on writers, editors and self-publishers   \$15,000     \$15,000    \$20,000     \$20,000     \$20,000
  **Total Annual Budget Cost**               \$250,000                                                                                          \$250,000    \$500,000   \$500,000    \$500,000    
  ------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------ ----------- ------------ ------------ ------------

  ------------------------------------------------------ ---------------
  **[Development Cost Estimate (Annual)]{.underline}**   
  **Personnel / Line Items**                             **Total**
  Lead Architect/PM                                      \$0
  Lead FS Dev                                            \$210,000
  Lead QA                                                \$0
  Lead UI                                                \$0
  Dev Tools                                              \$5,200
  Product Software Licenses                              \$1,200
  Jira BitBucket                                         \$1,500
  Jira Software                                          \$2,100
  Jira Service Desk                                      \$3,600
  Jira Confluence                                        \$1,500
  Outsourced Dev Team                                    \$315,000
  **Total Cost of Development (Annually)**               **\$540,100**
  ------------------------------------------------------ ---------------

### 

####### References

1.  [[https://articles.bplans.com/a-standard-business-plan-outline/]{.underline}](https://articles.bplans.com/a-standard-business-plan-outline/)

2.  [[https://www.statista.com/statistics/271931/revenue-of-the-us-book-publishing-industry/]{.underline}](https://www.statista.com/statistics/271931/revenue-of-the-us-book-publishing-industry/)

3.  [[https://qz.com/1240924/are-ebooks-dying-or-thriving-the-answer-is-yes/]{.underline}](https://qz.com/1240924/are-ebooks-dying-or-thriving-the-answer-is-yes/)

4.  [[http://www.bowker.com/news/2018/New-Record-More-than-1-Million-Books-Self-Published-in-2017.html]{.underline}](http://www.bowker.com/news/2018/New-Record-More-than-1-Million-Books-Self-Published-in-2017.html)

5.  [[https://www.codingvc.com/how-to-de-risk-a-startup]{.underline}](https://www.codingvc.com/how-to-de-risk-a-startup).
    Accessed 7 December 2019.

6.  [[https://www.codingvc.com/startups-are-risk-bundles/]{.underline}](https://www.codingvc.com/startups-are-risk-bundles/).
    Accessed 7 December 2019.

7.  [[https://aws.amazon.com/mobile/mobile-application-development/]{.underline}](https://aws.amazon.com/mobile/mobile-application-development/)

8.  [[https://calculator.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html]{.underline}](https://calculator.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html)

9.  [[https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/well-architected/]{.underline}](https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/well-architected/)

10. [[https://writingcooperative.com/how-to-build-your-own-author-platform-from-scratch-9d6123858bac]{.underline}](https://writingcooperative.com/how-to-build-your-own-author-platform-from-scratch-9d6123858bac)

11. [[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescommunicationscouncil/2017/04/28/how-to-build-a-successful-author-marketing-platform/\#7d37934226d4]{.underline}](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescommunicationscouncil/2017/04/28/how-to-build-a-successful-author-marketing-platform/#7d37934226d4)

12. [[https://writingcooperative.com/top-websites-for-fiction-writers-to-share-their-writing-cc4ed210105b]{.underline}](https://writingcooperative.com/top-websites-for-fiction-writers-to-share-their-writing-cc4ed210105b)

13. [[https://www.nanowrimo.org/]{.underline}](https://www.nanowrimo.org/)

14. [[https://www.business.com/articles/6-web-based-collaboration-tools-for-writers-and-content-marketers/]{.underline}](https://www.business.com/articles/6-web-based-collaboration-tools-for-writers-and-content-marketers/)

15. [[https://thewritepractice.com/best-book-writing-software/]{.underline}](https://thewritepractice.com/best-book-writing-software/)

16. [[https://www-statista-com.mutex.gmu.edu/topics/1177/book-market/]{.underline}](https://www-statista-com.mutex.gmu.edu/topics/1177/book-market/)

[^1]: See Figure: Self-Publishing Books in the US Market, *infra.*

[^2]: Sequoia. *Two-Sided Marketplaces and Engagement*.
    https://merovx.io/2HKEX0P. Retrieved February 22, 2020.

[^3]: Reddit r/selfpublish.
    [[https://www.reddit.com/r/selfpublish/]{.underline}](https://www.reddit.com/r/selfpublish/).
    Retrieved 12 December 2019.

[^4]: 20BooksTo50K.
    [[https://www.facebook.com/groups/20Booksto50k/]{.underline}](https://www.facebook.com/groups/20Booksto50k/).
    Retrieved 12 December 2019.

[^5]: Statista. *Net revenue of the book publishing industry in the
    United States from 2008 to 2018*

    https://merovx.io/2VqF6i7. Retrieved February 23, 2020.

[^6]: IBIS World. *Global Book Publishing - Industry Data, Trends,
    Stats*. https://merovx.io/38TMohZ. Retrieved February 23. 2020.

[^7]: See Figure: Self-Publishing Books in the US Market, *infra.*

[^8]: Bowker. *Self-Publishing Grew 40 Percent in 2018*.
    https://merovx.io/32m3tPp. Retrieved February 23, 2020.

[^9]: Bowker. Self-Publishing in the United States, 2013-2018.
    https://merovx.io/2T6ygva. Retrieved February 23, 2020.

[^10]: *Id.*

[^11]: Technavio. *Publishing Market by Platform and Geography --
    Forecast and Analysis 2020-2024*. https://merovx.io/2vXB7yM.
    Retrieved 23 February 2020.

[^12]: Garnter. *Gartner Magic Quadrant*. https://merovx.io/32wQDhn.
    Retrieved 24 February 2020.

[^13]: NaNoWriMo. *Regions Directory.*
    http://archive.nanowrimo.org/regions. Retrieved 25 February 2020.

[^14]: John Hagel. *The Power of Platforms*. https://merovx.io/2wFKrrm.
    Accessed February 23, 2020.

[^15]: Polovets. *How to De-Risk a Startup.*
    [[https://www.codingvc.com/how-to-de-risk-a-startup]{.underline}](https://www.codingvc.com/how-to-de-risk-a-startup).
    Accessed 7 December 2019.

[^16]: Polovets. *Startups are Bundles of Risk*.
    [[https://www.codingvc.com/startups-are-risk-bundles/]{.underline}](https://www.codingvc.com/startups-are-risk-bundles/).
    Accessed 7 December 2019.

[^17]: Josh Smith. *Lower Startup Risk with This Template*.
    <https://blog.codecorps.org/lower-your-startup-risk-with-this-template/>.
    Accessed February 23, 2020.

[^18]: Ryan Law. *Startup Valuation Methods, Explained*.
    https://medium.com/the-saas-growth-blog/startup-valuation-methods-explained-982cddd6a1e9.
    Accessed February 22, 2020.
