# Value Proposition

> Helping Authors Manage Their Creativity

## Vision

Verkilo will create a fully integrated, content-creation platform to help self-published authors create professional-grade books by automatically pairing the author with available freelance editors using a machine-learning matchmaking algorithm. Self-published authors need to work with their supporting editor on a schedule that supports the author’s targeted release date and the editor’s hectic schedule. Verkilo is an application that works on any device wherever the author and editor are comfortable. Verkilo’s unique value proposition removes friction from author and editor by automating the production process. This taps into a multibillion-dollar industry in need of optimization.
	
Verkilo will build a cutting edge, technology-based platform that professionals in the self-publishing market will recognize as the leader in their community.  This platform will support and enhance the delivery and time to market of professional-grade, self-published literature. Company primary revenue will be generated by a service charge processed against each editorial transaction conducted by the respective editors. Verkilo will develop and market its own product offering that leverages the agility of cloud technology and dynamically enhanced through data-drive machine learning for speed to market.

## Business Problem

The publishing industry is undergoing tremendous transformation where traditional media is being displaced by self-published authors. This leads to a problem where the author, as creator, must also fill the role of product manager. The author must plan and execute all aspects of production from finding and scheduling editors and cover artists to formatting the final copy and handling distribution and marketing. This steals precious time and energy from the author’s core role as the creative artist. 

Likewise, freelance editors are frustrated by the challenges of scheduling and coordinating their work. They work directly with authors who are unfamiliar with the traditional publishing process and find themselves frequently managing authors’ unrealistic schedule expectations and lack of professional discipline —often submitting manuscripts late and changing a draft after it has been submitted. This contention results in work-life balance complaints among freelance editors and tends to produce lower-quality self-published books released to market. Authors and editors would rather focus on their respective specialties and not contend with the hassles of coordinating their work with one another. By creating the solution through Verkilo’s offerings, we help self-published authors work more collaboratively with freelance editors on the editors’ timetable. Our goal here at Verkilo is to improve the quality of self-published books for global consumption in addition to providing a balanced work-life for editors, thus increasing earnings for both author and editor alike. 

## Solution

Verkilo helps authors and editors create professional, publishable books without all the hassles. We create a collaborative platform where authors and editors can work anywhere, any time by offering a cross-device application (web, Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, plugins). Verkilo monitors the author’s progress and creates a production schedule with editors who have similar audience and genre interests, and who are available to edit when the book is projected to be ready. When the author is ready to distribute, the book is professionally formatted into industry-standard file formats (ePUB, PDF). As 80% of self-published authors use Amazon’s Kindle Direct Publishing (KDP), these formats are perfect for uploading directly to KDP for sale on Amazon.

Sequoia  Capital, an American venture capital firm, describes American Express, PayPal, eBay, Uber, Facebook, WhatsApp, Netflix, and Amazon all as two-sided platforms. [@sequoia_two-sided_2018]  These platforms exist as intermediaries to match the supply and demand sides of a market efficiently.  Verkilo endeavors to provides a similar two-sided marketplace  for editors and authors to collaborate.

Verkilo helps authors and editors create professional, publishable books without all the hassles. We create a collaborative platform where authors and editors can work anywhere, any time by offering a cross-device application (web, Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, plugins).

## Validation

As discussed in the above Business Problem and Solution sections, market research analysis was completed through web crawling public forums, blogs, and community websites.  This includes Reddit’s r/self-publish channel comprising 36,700 members [@noauthor_self_nodate]  and the 20BooksTo50K® Facebook group comprising 35,800 members.  [@noauthor_20booksto50k_nodate]  We conducted an online survey of likely self-published editors via direct Facebook advertisement over a period of two weeks. This market research supported our assumption and suggested baseline requirements to support self-published authors and freelance editors in our target audience. Surveyed editors described their biggest challenge was finding suitable authors who matched their desired genre of editing that had realistic expectations to work within an editor’s schedule. These challenges directly affect the editors’ quality of life, contribute to their daily frustration, and diminish the overall professional relationship with authors.